<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Proposal: Remote help (3.3)</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
</head>
<body>

<h1>
Proposal: Remote help (3.3)
</h1>

<p>
Curtis d'Entremont, 07/05/2006
</p>

<h2>
The problem
</h2>

<p>
Packaging a comprehensive set of help contents with a product can significantly
increase its size. Consider the eclipse SDK as an example. The download size for
3.2 on Windows is 120MB, of which 30MB is documentation (compressed). This
results in longer downloads, larger media, and more required disk storage.
</p>

<h2>
The solution
</h2>

<h3>
Overview
</h3>

<p>
Host the content on a dedicated server (a plain infocenter) and have each client
workbench access the content remotely. Local content is also allowed and will be
merged with the remote content. The goal is that the help system will behave as
though it were all local, as far as the user is concerned.
</p>

<h3>
Scope
</h3>

<p>
Remote help will apply to all forms of help: online help (the documents
themselves, be it html or anything else), table of contents, context help, help
search, and keyword index. Dynamic content (e.g. filters) will still work on
remote content, and will use information from the local machine, not the remote
server. For example, if you have a paragraph to be displayed only on linux, and
you're running the workbench on windows pointing to a remote help server running
on linux, the paragraph will not be shown on the client machine. Since bookmarks
are user-defined and per-user, remote help does not apply and they will continue
to be stored locally.
</p>

<p>
As far as precedence goes, if local content for a particular item is available,
it will be used and remote help will not be consulted. For example, if you
attempt to open a specific document, or summon context help on a particular UI,
and that document or context help definition is available locally, it will be
used and any remote content for that item will be ignored.
</p>

<h3>
Configuration
</h3>

<p>
Help needs to know the address (host name/IP) and port of the remote server.
There will be two ways to configure which remote server to retrieve help from:
</p>

<ul>
<li>Global default: Products/offerings will have a means to preconfigure the
offering to point to a default server and port. This way the workbench will
automatically retrieve remote content upon startup for the first time.</li>
<li>User preference: A preference page will be available for the user allowing
them to explicitly set or override the host address and port for the remote help
server.</li>
</ul>

<p>
In any case, if no port is specified, a default of 80 will be assumed.
</p>

<h3>
Related enhancements
</h3>

<p>
This is a feature of the reference help implementation provided by eclipse.
There will be no API specifically for this in the help platform
(org.eclipse.help) for help system implementations in general. The API (for
specifying which server to use) will be at the org.eclipse.help.base level
instead. If another implementation of help wishes to do the same, it will be up
to them to implement this support. However the platform API needs to be made
more general in order to support this in the reference implementation. Here are
the known required enhancements:
</p>

<ul>
<li>TOC provider support - Currently the only way to contribute to the TOC
(table of contents) is to supply an XML file in a local plug-in. Since this
feature involves having books contributed from a remote source, this is not
enough. To facilitate this, a general-purpose mechanism will be introduced to
make contributions to the TOC. The API will allow any plug-in to contribute an
<code>ITocProvider</code> via an extension point, which will be queried at
runtime to supply TOC information. One such provider will be contributed by the
reference implementation, so authoring and packaging remote help with this
implementation will not require the addition of any extensions.</li>
<li>Keyword index provider support - The same, but for keyword index content.
</li>
</ul>

<h3>
Limitations
</h3>

<ul>
<li>A network connection is required.</li>
<li>The performance/responsiveness of help will be limited by the network
connection.</li>
<li>Progress monitoring during indexing may not be as accurate due to the
distributed nature.</li>
<li>Infocenter must be 3.3 or later.</li>
</ul>

<h3>
Future considerations
</h3>

<p>
In the future it may be desirable to allow multiple remote servers instead of
just one. This will be taken into consideration during implementation.
</p>

</body>
</html>
